“Your biggest opponent isn’t the other guy. It’s human nature.” – Bobby Knight
“Things we lose have a way of coming back to us in the end, if not always in the way we expect.” – Luna Lovegood
“What do do with a mistake: recognize it, admit it, learn from it, forget it.” – Dean Smith
“What makes something special is not just what you have to gain, but what you feel there is to lose.” – Andre Agassi
“Harry Potter, to a point, will always define me, but I hope in the same way that Harrison Ford is defined by Star Wars.” – Daniel Radcliffe
“And now, Harry, let us step out into the night and pursue that flighty temptress, adventure.” – Albus Dumbledore
“Most people never run far enough on their first wind to find out they’ve got a second.” – William James
“How can I have hung round you for five years and not think girls are clever?” – Ron Weasley
“Most people give up just when they’re about to achieve success. They quit on the one yard line. They give up at the last minute of the game one foot from a winning touchdown.” – Ross Perot
“Words are, in my not-so-humble opinion, our most inexhaustible source of magic. Capable of both inflicting injury, and remedying it.” – Albus Dumbledore
“There are only two options regarding commitment. You’re either IN or you’re OUT. There is no such thing as life in-between.” – Pat Riley
“Baseball is the only field of endeavor where a man can succeed three times out of ten and be considered a good performer.” – Ted Williams
“Do you know what my favorite part of the game is? The opportunity to play.” – Mike Singletary
“Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all those who live without love. “ – Albus Dumbledore
“You win some, you lose some, and some get rained out, but you gotta suit up for them all.” – J. Askenberg
“When you’re riding, only the race in which you’re riding is important.” – Bill Shoemaker
“You have to do something in your life that is honorable and not cowardly if you are to live in peace with yourself.” – Larry Brown
“If you don’t have confidence, you’ll always find a way not to win.”– Carl Lewis
“It matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be.” – Albus Dumbledore
“Sports serve society by providing vivid examples of excellence.” – George F. Will
“You are never really playing an opponent. You are playing yourself, your own highest standards, and when you reach your limits, that is real joy.” – Arthur Ashe
“Do not let what you can not do interfere with what you can do.” – John Wooden
“Age is no barrier. It’s a limitation you put on your mind.” – Jackie Joyner-Kersee
“But from that moment on, Hermione Granger became their friend. Because there are somethings you can’t go through in life and become friends, and knocking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them.”– Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
“Greatness inspires envy, envy engenders spite, spite spawns lies.” – Lord Voldemort
“A champion is someone who gets up when he can’t.” – Jack Dempsey
“How you respond to the challenge in the second half will determine what you become after the game, whether you are a winner or a loser.” – Lou Holtz
“I never left the field saying I could have done more to get ready and that gives me piece of mind.” – Peyton Manning
“Persistence can change failure into extraordinary achievement.” – Matt Biondi
“‘He must have known I’d run out on you.’ ‘No,’ Harry corrected him. ‘He must’ve always known you’d always want to come back.’” – Ron Weasley
“Hogwarts is threatened!” shouted Professor McGonagall. “Man the boundaries, protect us, do your duty to our school!” – Professor McGonagall
“We teachers are rather good at magic, you know.” – Minerva McGonagall
“For in dreams we enter a world that is entirely our own.” – Albus Dumbledore
“Push yourself again and again. Don’t give an inch until the final buzzer sounds.” – Larry Bird
“Just because you have the emotional range of a teaspoon doesn’t mean we all have.” – Hermione Granger
“To the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.” – Albus Dumbledore
“The highest compliment that you can pay me is to say that I work hard every day, that I never dog it.” – Wayne Gretzky
“I became a good pitcher when I stopped trying to make them miss the ball and started trying to make them hit it.” – Sandy Koufax
“I think we’ve outgrown full-time education … Time to test our talents in the real world, d’you reckon?” – Fred Weasley
“Make sure your worst enemy doesn’t live between your own two ears.” – Laird Hamilton
“An athlete cannot run with money in his pockets. He must run with hope in his heart and dreams in his head.” – Emil Zatopek
“Number one is just to gain a passion for running. To love the morning, to love the trail, to love the pace on the track. And if some kid gets really good at it, that’s cool too.” – Pat Tyson
“Persistence can change failure into extraordinary achievement.” – Marv Levy
“Good is not good when better is expected.” – Vin Scully
“Wisdom is always an overmatch for strength.” – Phil Jackson
“To uncover your true potential you must first find your own limits and then you have to have the courage to blow past them.” – Picabo Street
“It was, he thought, the difference between being dragged into the arena to face a battle to the death and walking into the arena with your head held high. Some people, perhaps, would say that there was little to choose between the two ways, but Dumbledore knew — and so do I, thought Harry, with a rush of fierce pride, and so did my parents — that there was all the difference in the world.” – Harry Potter
“Never give up! Failure and rejection are only the first step to succeeding.” – Jim Valvano
“The will to win is important, but the will to prepare is vital.” – Joe Paterno
“Champions keep playing until they get it right.” – Billie Jean King
“If you fail to prepare, you’re prepared to fail.” – Mark Spitz
“The difference between the impossible and the possible lies in a person’s determination.” – Tommy Lasorda
“Never give up, never give in, and when the upper hand is ours, may we have the ability to handle the win with the dignity that we absorbed the loss.” – Doug Williams
“I hated every minute of training, but I said, ‘Don’t quit. Suffer now and live the rest of your life as a champion.’” – Muhammad Ali
“You’ve got to take the initiative and play your game. In a decisive set, confidence is the difference.” – Chris Evert
“Differences of habit and language are nothing at all if our aims are identical and our hearts are open.” – Albus Dumbledore
“If you have everything under control, you’re not moving fast enough.” – Mario Andretti
“The happiest man on earth would be able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, he would look into it and see himself exactly as he is. Does that help.” – Albus Dumbledore
“The hardest skill to acquire in this sport is the one where you compete all out, give it all you have, and you are still getting beat no matter what you do. When you have the killer instinct to fight through that, it is very special.” – Eddie Reese
“There will be no foolish wand-waving or silly incantations in this class. As such, I don’t expect many of you to appreciate the subtle science and exact art that is potion-making. However, for those select few who possess the predisposition, I can teach you how to bewitch the mind and ensnare the senses. I can tell you how to bottle fame, brew glory, and even put a stopper in death. Then again, maybe some of you have come to Hogwarts in possession of abilities so formidable that you feel confident enough to not pay attention!” – Professor Severus Snape
“Fear of a name only increases fear of the thing itself.” – Hermione Granger
“I’ve missed more than 9,000 shots in my career. I’ve lost almost 300 games. 26 times, I’ve been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I’ve failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed.” – Michael Jordan
“I am what I am, an’ I’m not ashamed. ‘Never be ashamed,’ my ol’ dad used ter say, ‘there’s some who’ll hold it against you, but they’re not worth botherin’ with.'” – Rubeus Hagrid
“No story lives unless someone wants to listen. The stories we love best do live in us forever. So whether you come back by page or by the big screen, Hogwarts will always be there to welcome you home.” – J.K. Rowling
“It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.” – Albus Dumbledore
“That’s what they should teach us here. How girls’ brains work… It would be more useful than divination, anyway…” – Ron Weasley
“It’s not the will to win that matters—everyone has that. It’s the will to prepare to win that matters.” – Paul “Bear” Bryant
“I mean, you could claim that anything’s real if the only basis for believing in it is that nobody’s proved it doesn’t exist!” – Hermione Granger
“Killing is not so easy as the innocent believe.” – Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince
“Celebrity is as celebrity does, remember that.” – Gilderoy Lockhart
“I am not worried, Harry…I am with you.” – Albus Dumbledore
“A trophy carries dust. Memories last forever.” – Mary Lou Retton
“Once again, you show all the sensitivity of a blunt axe.” – Nearly Headless Nick
“If you can believe it, the mind can achieve it.” – Ronnie Lott
“I used to be self-conscious about my height, but then I thought, f—k that, I’m Harry Potter.” – Daniel Radcliffe
“Finally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the dusty carpet of the office where he had once thought he was learning the secrets of victory, Harry understood at last that he was not supposed to survive.” – Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
“I solemnly swear I am up to no good.” – Harry Potter
“You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it.” – Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
“There were near misses, many of them. We laughed about them afterwards. We were young, thoughtless — carried away with our own cleverness.” – Remus Lupin
“The principle is competing against yourself. It’s about self-improvement, about being better than you were the day before.” – Steve Young
“Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the people they oppress? All of them realize that, one day, amongst their many victims, there is sure to be one who rises against them and strikes back!” – Albus Dumbledore
“The world isn’t split into good people and Death Eaters.” – Sirius Black
“You can motivate by fear, and you can motivate by reward. But both those methods are only temporary. The only lasting thing is self motivation.” – Homer Rice
“What’s comin’ will come, and we’ll meet it when it does.” – Rubeus Hagrid
“Obstacles don’t have to stop you. If you run into a wall, don’t turn around and give up. Figure out how to climb it, go through it, or work around it.” – Michael Jordan
“We’ve all got both light and dark inside us. What matters is the part we choose to act on. That’s who we really are.” – Sirius Black
“It is a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited to power are those who have never sought it. Those who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and take up the mantle because they must, and find to their own surprise that they wear it well.” – Albus Dumbledore
“We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know that?” – Neville Longbottom
“When in doubt, go to the library.” – Ron Weasley
“Time will not slow down when something unpleasant lies ahead.” – Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
“Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?” – Albus Dumbledore
“Parents shouldn’t leave their kids unless —unless they’ve got to.” – Harry Potter 
“We can’t choose our fate, but we can choose others. Be careful in knowing that.” – Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
“We must all face the choice between what is right and what is easy.” – Albus Dumbledore
“From now on, I don’t care if my tea leaves spell, ‘Die, Ron, die,’ I’m chucking them in the bin where they belong. – Ron Weasley
“Don’t let the muggles get you down.” – Ron Weasley
“There is no good and evil, there is only power and those too weak to seek it.” – Lord Voldemort
“You will also find that help will always be given at Hogwarts to those who ask for it.” – Albus Dumbledore
“I’m going to keep going until I succeed — or die. Don’t think I don’t know how this might end. I’ve known it for years.” – Harry Potter
“I was ripped from my body, I was less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost… But still, I was alive.” – Lord Voldemort
“All was well.” – Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Bonus Quotes about all things Harry Potter
While many fans have imagined what it would be like to walk the halls of Hogwarts, for Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, and Emma Watson, it was a reality that occupied a considerable part of their childhood.
Playing such huge roles undoubtedly changed their lives, in some ways for the better, and others worse.
One thing is for certain, and that is that the profound effect of the Harry Potter series, whether in print or on screen.  J.K. Rowling’s creation continues to delight and amaze new fans every day, with fellow authors and actors applauding her stories and the deep emotion they have captured.
I must have read my battered old copies of the Harry Potter novels hundreds of times, and I still get excited, frustrated, nervous, and upset as I read them… even though I know the story so well.
Enjoy these bonus quotes on what it’s like to be in the Wizarding World, Rowling’s mastery, and the legacy of the Harry Potter series!
“JK Rowling created seven horcruxes. She put a part of her soul in every book and her books will live forever.” – Stephen King
“The line between Ron and me became thinner with each film and I think we became virtually the same person. There’s a lot of me in Ron and moving on was a massive adjustment because it was such a constant part of my life.” – Rupert Grint
“Harry Potter isn’t real? Oh no! Wait, wait, what do you mean by real? Is this video blog real? Am I real if you can see me and hear me, but only through the internet? Are you real if I can read your comment but I don’t know who you are or what your name is or where you’re from or what you look like or how old you are? I know all of those things about Harry Potter. Maybe Harry Potter’s real and you’re not.” – John Green
“There’s always room for a story that can transport people to another place.” – J.K. Rowling
“When I see the images of the first Harry Potter, I immediately think of how ugly my hair was.” – Emma Watson
What is your favorite lesson from the Harry Potter series? Is there a quote that inspires you that’s missing from our list? Share it with us below.
“It is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and darkness, nothing more. “ – Albus Dumbledore
“If you can’t outplay them, outwork them.” – Ben Hogan
“The mind is the limit. As long as the mind can envision the fact that you can do something, you can do it, as long as you really believe 100 percent.” – Arnold Schwarzenegger
“Continuous effort — not strength or intelligence — is the key to unlocking our potential.” – Liane Cardes
“Never let your head hang down. Never give up and sit down and grieve. Find another way.” – Satchel Paige
“People ask me what I do in winter when there’s no baseball. I’ll tell you what I do. I stare out the window and wait for spring.” – Rogers Hornsby
“One man practicing sportsmanship is far better than 50 preaching it.” – Knute Rockne
“Stubbornness usually is considered a negative; but I think that trait has been a positive for me.” – Cal Ripken Jr.
“Every human life is worth the same, and worth saving.” – Kingsley Shacklebolt
“If you aren’t going all the way, why go at all?” – Joe Namath
“My motto was always to keep swinging. Whether I was in a slump or feeling badly or having trouble off the field, the only thing to do was keep swinging.” – Hank Aaron
“Always make a total effort, even when the odds are against you.” – Arnold Palmer
“Adversity cause some men to break; others to break records.” – William A. Ward
“You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You think that we don’t recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? “ – Albus Dumbledore
“Show me a guy who’s afraid to look bad, and I’ll show you a guy you can beat every time.” – Lou Brock
“Somewhere behind the athlete you’ve become and the hours of practice and the coaches who have pushed you is a little girl who fell in love with the game and never looked back… play for her.” – Mia Hamm
“I’ve learned that something constructive comes from every defeat.” – Tom Landry
“You can’t put a limit on anything. The more you dream, the farther you get.” – Michael Phelps
“Win If You Can, Lose If You Must, But NEVER QUIT!” – Cameron Trammell
“Excellence is the gradual result of always striving to do better.” – Pat Riley
“I didn’t believe in team motivation. I believe in getting a team prepared so it knows it will have the necessary confidence when it steps on the field and be prepared to play a good game.” – Tom Landry
“Gold medals aren’t really made of gold. They’re made of sweat, determination, and a hard-to-find alloy called guts.” – Dan Gable
“You were born to be a player. You were meant to be here. This moment is yours.” – Herb Brooks
“The only way to prove that you’re a good sport is to lose.” – Ernie Banks
“I always felt that my greatest asset was not my physical ability, it was my mental ability.” – Bruce Jenner
 “It is not the size of a man but the size of his heart that matters.” – Evander Holyfield
“Most talented players don’t always succeed. Some don’t even make the team. It’s more what’s inside.” – Brett Favre
“When you win, say nothing, when you lose, say less.” – Paul Brown
“Anything’s possible if you’ve got enough nerve.'” – Ginny Weasley
“Some people say I have attitude – maybe I do…but I think you have to. You have to believe in yourself when no one else does – that makes you a winner right there. ” – Venus Williams
“During my 18 years I came to bat almost 10,000 times. I struck out about 1,700 times and walked maybe 1,800 times. You figure a ballplayer will average about 500 at bats a season. That means I played seven years without ever hitting the ball.” – Mickey Mantle
“It ain’t over till it’s over.” – Yogi Berra
“You find that you have peace of mind and can enjoy yourself, get more sleep, and rest when you know that it was a one hundred percent effort that you gave–win or lose.” – Gordie Howe
“You miss 100 percent of the shots you don’t take.” – Wayne Gretzky
“One man can be a crucial ingredient on a team, but one man cannot make a team. ” – Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
“Leadership, like coaching, is fighting for the hearts and souls of men and getting them to believe in you.” – Eddie Robinson
“Make each day your masterpiece.” – John Wooden
“But you know, happiness can be found even in the darkest of times, if one only remembers to turn on the light.” – Albus Dumbledore
“The more difficult the victory, the greater the happiness in winning.” – Pele
“The five S’s of sports training are: stamina, speed, strength, skill, and spirit; but the greatest of these is spirit.” – Ken Doherty
